RHDEVDOCS-2815 Authenticating pipelines using git secret (#37610)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/op-configuring-basic-authentication-for-git.adoc

// This module is included in the following assembly:
//
// *openshift-docs/cicd/pipelines/authenticating-pipelines-using-git-secret.adoc

[id="op-configuring-basic-authentication-for-git_{context}"]
= Configuring basic authentication for Git

> For basic authentication, {pipelines-shortname} creates a `~/.gitconfig` file containing the credentials specified in the secret, before executing any steps in a task run or a pipeline run. When the steps execute, {pipelines-shortname} uses those credentials to retrieve the pipeline resources specified in a run.

Reviewer: Can we rephrase this so that the reader understands what they are going to do? The current style obscures what actions the user performs. 
For example (I'm not sure that this is technically accurate, but it is an example of the style I think might help.)
```suggestion
Before initiating a pipeline run, you configure basic authentication by creating a `~/.gitconfig` file that contains the credentials in the Git secret. {pipelines-shortname} uses those credentials to retrieve the pipeline resources specified in a run.
```

Reviewer: IBM SG: "Use present tense. Use active voice. Use second person (you)."

[discrete]
.Procedure

> To configure a Git secret of the `basic-auth` type:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Do not use a lead-in sentence in the Prerequisites or Procedure sections of a module unless it is necessary to aid navigation or add clarity.
https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#lead-in-sentences

> . In the `secret.yaml` file, specify the username and password required to access the target Git repository.

Reviewer: Do not use a lead-in sentence in the Prerequisites or Procedure sections of a module unless it is necessary to aid navigation or add clarity.
https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#lead-in-sentences

> . In the `secret.yaml` file, specify the username and password required to access the target Git repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the `secret.yaml` file, specify the username and password link:https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token[GitHub personal access token] to access the target Git repository.
```

Reviewer: Do we need to include steps to edit the `secret.yaml` file and then apply the changes. Is it safe to assume that the user already knows how to do this?

Author: I think it's better if we retain the steps to edit `secret.yaml`.

+

> [NOTE]
> ====
> For GitHub, authentication using plain password is deprecated. Instead, use a link:https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token[personal access token].
> ====

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: If you decide to keep this note, consider moving it to a better location. The current location, between the instruction and example, isn't optimal.

+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:

>   name: basic-user-pass

Reviewer: Is `basic-user-pass` a specific or user-defined value? If it is user-defined, enclose it in brackets.

  annotations:
    tekton.dev/git-0: https://github.com
type: kubernetes.io/basic-auth
stringData:
  username: <cleartext username>
  password: <cleartext password or personal access token>
----
+

> . In the `serviceaccount.yaml` file, associate the secret with the appropriate service account.

Reviewer: Do we need to include steps to edit the `secret.yaml` file and then apply the changes. Is it safe to assume that the user already knows how to do this?

Author: I am in favor of retaining the snippet, because a complex procedure always puts the human brain into "monkey see, monkey do" mode, and an example helps in such situations.

+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: build-bot
secrets:

>   - name: basic-user-pass

Reviewer: Is `basic-user-pass` a specific or user-defined value? If it is user-defined, enclose it in brackets.

----
+
. In the `run.yaml` file, associate the service account with a task run or a pipeline run.
+

> * To associate the service account with a task run:

Reviewer: Please complete the sentence.

+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1beta1
kind: TaskRun
metadata:
  name: build-push-task-run-2
spec:
  serviceAccountName: build-bot
  taskRef:
    name: build-push
----
+

> * To associate the service account with a pipeline run:

Reviewer: Please complete the sentence.

+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1beta1
kind: PipelineRun
metadata:
  name: demo-pipeline
  namespace: default
spec:
  serviceAccountName: build-bot
  pipelineRef:
    name: demo-pipeline
----
+

> . Execute the run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Apply the changes.
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ kubectl apply --filename secret.yaml,serviceaccount.yaml,run.yaml

> ----

Reviewer: Please apply suggestions from this file to similar instances in the remaining files. (I won't be repeating those suggestions.)
